Porting to ASP.NET Core (#21042)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/porting-existing-aspnet-apps/introduction.md

---
title: Introduction to porting apps to .NET Core
description: This chapter covers a list of considerations for teams considering migrating existing ASP.NET applications to .NET Core.
author: ardalis
ms.date: 11/13/2020
---

# Introduction to porting apps to .NET Core

[!INCLUDE [book-preview](../../../includes/book-preview.md)]

> .NET Framework apps have a very long life ahead of them, with support built into Windows for the foreseeable future. However, there may be advantages to migrating to .NET Core. While there is no such thing as a free lunch, it's worth considering the pros and cons of a migration effort before committing to porting a working app to a new framework. What are the expected advantages? What are the tradeoffs? How much effort is involved? These obvious questions are just the beginning, but make for a great starting point as teams consider how to support their customers' needs with apps today and tomorrow.

Reviewer: We want people to migrate, so I would emphasize the advantages that a migration has instead of putting it in vague terms. We shouldn't start with, it might not be worth it, we believe it is. So I would frame it more like, Despite .NET frameowrk apps being supported for the foreseeable future, we recomend migrating to .NET Core in the majority of cases due to
the numerous advantages that it brings. (Perf, Multiplatform, Small containers, etc).

Reviewer: More assertive in the beginning and then state the questions later

Author: So, something like:

"
.NET Core is a revolutionary step forward from .NET Framework. It offers a host of advantages over .NET across the board from productivity to performance, from cross-platform to developer satisfaction. ASP.NET Core was even voted the most-loved web framework in the [2020 Stack Overflow developer survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2020#most-loved-dreaded-and-wanted). Clearly there are strong reasons to consider migrating.

However, upgrading your app to ASP.NET Core will require some effort, and that effort should be balanced against business value and objectives. (lead into questions here)
"

?

Author: @javiercn

Reviewer 2: Could we also weave this in to the conversation: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-core-is-the-future-of-net? We want to make it clear that all new feature work is exclusive to .NET Core

Author: done

> .NET Applications have a very long life ahead of them, with support built into Windows for the foreseeable future. However, there may be advantages to migrating to .NET Core. While there is no such thing as a free lunch, it's worth considering the pros and cons of a migration effort before committing to porting a working app to a new framework. What are the expected advantages? What are the tradeoffs? How much effort is involved? These obvious questions are just the beginning, but make for a great starting point as teams consider how to support their customers' needs with applications today and tomorrow.

Reviewer 3: Feel free to shorten "applications" to "apps" all throughout.

```suggestion
.NET Framework apps have a very long life ahead of them, with support built into Windows for the foreseeable future. However, there may be advantages to migrating to .NET Core. While there is no such thing as a free lunch, it's worth considering the pros and cons of a migration effort before committing to porting a working app to a new framework. What are the expected advantages? What are the tradeoffs? How much effort is involved? These obvious questions are just the beginning, but make for a great starting point as teams consider how to support their customers' needs with apps today and tomorrow.
```

- Is migration to .NET Core appropriate?
- When does it make sense to remain on .NET Framework?
- Should apps target .NET Core 2.1 as a stepping stone?
- How should teams choose the right .NET Core version to target?
- What strategies are recommended for incremental migration of large apps?
- What deployment strategies should be considered when porting to .NET Core?
- Where can we find additional resources?

> In this introductory chapter, we will address all of these questions and more before moving on to more specific and technical considerations in future chapters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This introductory chapter addresses all of these questions and more before moving on to more specific and technical considerations in future chapters.
```
